# AI-Powered Quiz API

## Getting Started
Dependencies:
* Docker - See [Get Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
* Docker Compose - Installed with Docker Desktop, See [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

With the dependencies installed, running the project is as simple as running:
```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY='your_key'
```
```bash
docker compose up
```

This will pull the required Docker images and spin up a container running your service on http://localhost:8000.

To end the service, press `Ctrl+C`


**Note:** I am sending my OPENAI_API_KEY via email in case the tester does not have one.

You can also generate a OPENAI_API_KEY by signing up on the OpenAI website [here](https://platform.openai.com/signup) and following the instructions provided.



## Explanation of the Idea

The AI-Powered Quiz API simplifies the integration of dynamic quizzes into applications. 
Users can request questions tailored to their preferences, and the API utilizes AI algorithms to generate new questions. Upon receiving a question, users can submit the answer for instant feedback.


## Usage Instructions

1. **Environment Variable Setup**:
   Before running `docker compose up`, ensure you have set up an environment variable named `OPENAI_API_KEY` with your key for using OpenAI API.

2. **Running the System**:
   After executing `docker compose up`, the system will be up and running on your local machine at [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000).

3. **Swagger**:
   To perform proper testing, you can utilize the auto-generated Swagger interface located at [localhost:8000/api/docs](http://localhost:8000/api/docs).

## API Endpoints

### 1. `/api/question` (GET)

- **Description**: Used to retrieve a new question generated by AI.
- **Query Parameter**: 
  - `category`: Accepts values 'geography', 'science', and 'random'. Default is 'random'.
- **Response JSON Format**:
    ```json
    {
        "uuid": "uuid of question",
        "question": "the proper question statement with options inside it",
        "category": "the chosen category"
    }
    ```


### 2. `/api/answer` (POST)
- **Description**: Used to submit a response to a known question.
- **Request JSON Format**:
    ```json
    {
        "question_uuid": "the uuid of the question",
        "answer": "the answer of the user that will be A, B, C, or D"
    }
    ```
- **Response JSON Format**:
    ```json
    {
        "answered_correctly": "if you responded correctly",
        "correct_answer": "the correct answer to the question"
    }
    ```


